# SpellChecker ReadMe
1. Person.java:
- My public Person was created to be my constructor method.
- In my Person with the parameter String stringName, it creates a constructor for the global variable string name.
- My setName method with the parameter strName sets the global variable name.
- My String getName method returns the global variable name.
- The setExplored method with the parameter boolean nameExplored sets the boolean of the global variable explored, which indicates the people explored.
- The getExplored returns whether the algorithm has explored the person yet.
- The setPredecessor method with the parameter String spredName sets the predecessor name.
- The getPredecessor method returns the predecessor’s name.
- The setFreindsList with the parameter ArrayList friendsNames sets the friends list array.
- The ArrayList getFriendsList returns the friends list array.

2. SixDegreesDriver.java
- I created a static ArrayList peeps to access the class Person.
In my main method, the starts by reading the file friends.txt. I initialized the string variable playAgain to “y” before the while loop so the program starts with the while loop since it is structured to run as long as playAgain is equaled to “y.” As long as playAgain equals “y,” the user is asked to type in the name of the first person. The nested while loop happens every time peeps does not contain the person’s name. It then prints the error message and reasks the user to input the first person’s name. Outside of the nested while loop the user is prompted to input the name of the second person. In another while loop nested in the main while loop, the while loop is executed when peeps does not contain the second person’s name. It prints an error message and reasks the user to input the second person’s name until it is a name in peeps. Then, the relation is printed through the initialization of an ArrayList called chainListx that uses the search method (which is later created) to return the person’s names that are related to the names imputed. Afterwards, the degrees of separation are then printed using the chainListx size minus one to not count the relation between the person and themselves. The user is then asked if they want to keep playing and if they choose “y,” then the game restarts from the first while loop. If the player chooses “n,” then the average degrees of separation are printed using the method connectArray, which is later created.
- In my ArrayList search method, it takes in the parameter of Person A and Person B. A new ArrayList is created that is the list of names of the people explored. In the for loop, as long as i is less than the peeps size, peeps at index i are set explored to false and peeps at index i are set to be null with setPredecessor. Outside of the loop, the boolean found is created and set to false to say the person object is not found yet. Person A is then added to the ExploreList and A is setExplored to true. Then, while the ExploreList is not empty and not found, a person x saves the x to get index 0. A new string variable name is then created so x can be a name instead of a person. Then, the first (which is 0) index of ExploreList is removed. If x and B have the same name, then found is equaled to true. If else, then a new ArrayList is initialized where friendsList is equaled to the names of the getFriendsList. In a nested if statement, if friendsList is null, then the user receives a message saying the two people are not connected. Else, for every person y in the same getFreindsList as x, if y has not been explored yet, then we add y to the ExploreList and set y as has been explored. The name of x is then set as the predecessor of y.
- In the second part of the algorithm, the ArrayList chainList is created. The string variable current is initialized to take in the name of person B. While the current variable has a name, current is added into the chainList and current is set to be current’s predecessor. The program then loops through the chainList and prints the contents in reverse order.
- In the connectArray method, the row and columns are initialized so row takes in the size of peeps and columns take in the size of peeps minus one to account for the comparison of the self (like the Mary to Mary comparison). The double variable total is initialized to zero. Then, the 2D array is initialized and takes in the rows and columns. Next, the integer variable currentRow and currentColumn are initialized to zero as they will keep count at each loop to know where to insert the degrees of separation between person i and j. Next the array is populated and for every person i in peeps and person j in peeps, we initialize the ArrayList pplChainList to search peeps. Then, the variable chainVariable is set to be the pplChainList size minus one to be all people minus one. Then, the chainVariable is equaled to adding the number of people on the list if person is 0. The connectArray then takes in the currentRow and currentColumn variables to put in the array and it is made equal to the chainVariable. The currentColumn variable is then updated to move to the next column. Outside of the nested for loop, the currentColumn is then reset to zero so it can start from the beginning for the new row, and the currentRow is updated to move to the next row. Looping throught he rows of connectArray and then looping through the columns of connectArray, we update the total count to include the inputs of connectArray of row and column. The variable peepPairsNum calculates the number of pairs in peeps, excluding counting the pairing of the self. The double variable avgDegSep takes the total and divides it by the peepPairsNum, which is returned at the end.
- In the Person getPerson method with the parameter of String name, for each person in peeps, the program checks if the person’s name equals the name we wanted. If this is the case, it returns the person. If the name is never found, then it will return null (however it should not reach here). In the readFile method witht he parameter String file, it reads the friends.txt file and splits the row across by names seperated by the tab space. The first name is then used to create the person and the rest of the names go into the friendsList.

3. Improvements:
- I would like to stop the chain list of names from printing without also stopping the average degree of separation from printing.
- Another improvement would be to print the message “They are not connected” isntead of showing the degree of separation is zero when I print a friendless person’s name. 
